Readme
========================================================

This is the course project for [Getting and Cleaning Data](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-005). This script creates a tidy data set with the average of means and standard deviations of various accelerometer measurements for each activity and each subject. 

This project uses data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone.

The full description of the data is available [here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

The data is available [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip).

**Data source acknowledgement** 
*Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012*

Description
--------------------------------------------------------
This repository contains the following files:
* AvgMeansAndStds.txt --- The tidy data set generated by the run_analysis.R script.
* CodeBook.md --- Explanations for the column names in the generated tidy data set.
* README.md -- This file.
* analysis_functions.R --- Helper functions used by run_analysis.R. 
* run_analysis.R --- The primary script that needs to be run. This loads the data and produces the data in AvgMeansAndStds.txt. This script requires analysis_functions.R in order to run.

Instructions
--------------------------------------------------------
1. Download the run_analysis.R and analysis_functions.R into the same directory.
2. Set your R workspace to the same directory as the R source files.
3. Download the dataset from here: [UCI HAR Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)
4. Unzip the dataset into a directory named "UCI HAR Dataset" within same directory that contains the run_analysis.R script.
5. Execute run_analysis.R with the following R command: 
```R
source("run_analysis.R")
```

This will output a file named "AvgMeansAndStds.txt" that contains a table with the average of means and standard deviations of various accelerometer measurements for each activity and each subject. 

System Information
--------------------------------------------------------
The AvgMeansAndStds.txt was created with:
* RStudio version 0.98.927
* R version 3.1.0 for x86_64-redhat-linux-gnu
* Fedora 20 x86_64


